content/system.md, before:

## Dependency Injection Framework
{:#system}

Building on top of the declarative configurations that were explained in previous section,
we now discuss Components.js, which is a system that can interpret these configurations
for enabling dependency injection within JavaScript/TypeScript projects.
In this section, we first explain the main architecture, followed by the most relevant implementation details.

### Architecture
{:#system-architecture}

The primary functional requirement of our architecture is the ability to perform dependency injection based on the configuration files from previous section.
Concretely, this involves _parsing_ the configuration files, _interpreting_ them, and _instantiating_ the necessary components.
Next to these functional needs, we took the following non-functional requirements into account when designing the architecture:

* Usability: Developers using the framework should only be required to interact with a single entry point.
* Extensibility/Maintainability: The system should be robust against different future functional requirements.
* Performance: Parts of the architecture that are prone to performance issues should be cacheable.

To meet these requirements, the Components.js dependency injection tool goes through three main phases:

* Loading: Initialization of DI components, discovery of modules, and loading of configuration files.
* Preprocessing: Handling of constructor arguments before construction.
* Construction: Instantiation of JavaScript classes based on configuration files.

These three phases are handled by the `ComponentsManager`,
which acts as the main entrypoint of the framework
as can be seen in [](#architecture-main) in the appendix.
This manager class is constructed via a static `build` method,
via which custom options can be passed,
such as a callback for loading modules and configuration files.
To meet the _usability_ requirement, this is the only part that most users of the framework will interact with.

For the sake of clarity, all UML architecture diagrams that we include in this article
only contain simplified representations of the actual classes.
So there may be minor differences when comparing the diagrams with the actual source code.

Hereafter, we explain these three phases in more detail.

#### Loading

When the `ComponentsManager` is being built,
the loading phase will be initiated,
which will make use of the classes within the load package.
The most important classes within this package are shown in [](#architecture-load) in the appendix.
This phase aims to contain all major I/O operations, which could be expensive on slow disks and/or in large projects.
This allows later phases to purely work on memory.
Furthermore, the loaded information is designed to be cacheable,
which means that software that require repeated invocations may optimize the loading phase by caching certain parts,
which thereby meets the _performance_ requirement.

The `ModuleStateBuilder` is a class that is responsible for scanning the current JavaScript project and its dependencies.
The main objective of this class is to build an `IModuleState`, that contains information such as the paths to available components and dependencies.

`ComponentRegistry` and `ConfigRegistry` are classes that are exposed via a callback to invokers of `ComponentsManager.build()`.
These classes respectively enable modules and configurations to be registered,
after those modules and configurations will be loaded.

#### Preprocessing

Before a configuration is instantiated during the construction phase,
it always goes through a preprocessing phase.
Concretely, this involves processing all parameters and constructor arguments,
for which the most relevant classes and interfaces are shown in [](#architecture-preprocess) in the appendix.
To meet the _extensibility_ and _maintainability_ requirements, the architecture allows different parameters and constructor arguments handlers to be injected.
This makes the architecture more robust against currently unforeseen functional requirements regarding the handling of parameters and constructor arguments.

`IConfigPreprocessor` is an interface that represents a preprocessing algorithm for a configuration,
and can have multiple implementations.

`ConfigPreprocessorComponent` is a preprocessor that is able to determine what component is being instantiated within a configuration.
It will check if the linked component exists, and it will validate all passed parameters.
For this parameter validation, the `ParameterHandler` class is used,
which works based on a list of `IParameterPropertyHandler`'s.
For instance, parameter property handlers exist for validating the range of parameters,
checking the uniqueness, handling default values, and more.

`ConfigPreprocessorComponentMapped` is another preprocessor that builds upon `ConfigPreprocessorComponent`,
so that it _additionally_ handles constructor arguments as defined by the Object Mapping vocabulary.
Concretely, after validating parameters, it will handle the constructor arguments recursively
using a list of `IConstructorArgumentsElementMappingHandler`'s.
These handlers can handle specific types of constructor arguments and parameters,
such as the conversion of `om:ObjectMapping` to an object,
and the conversion of `om:ArrayMapping` to an array.

The end-result of the preprocessing phase is a configuration that represents
the raw constructor call of a class, together with the required arguments.

#### Construction

The construction phase is responsible for instantiating a configuration.
The main classes for this are shown in [](#architecture-construct) in the appendix.
Like before, the _extensibility_ and _maintainability_ requirements also apply here regarding the way in which things are constructed,
for which we also provide the ability to inject different handlers.

`ConfigConstructorPool` is the main entrypoint that is used when a user instantiates a configuration via `ComponentsManager.instantiate()`.
Before actually instantiating a config,
it will first check if it had been instantiated before,
in which case it returns it from a cache.
This may occur for nested configurations that reuse the same component in different places.
If the config has not been instantiated before,
it will first go through the preprocessing phase as explained in the previous section,
and then the processed config will be passed on to the `ConfigConstructor`.

The `ConfigConstructor` is able to convert the representation of a class constructor call into an actual constructor call to obtain an object.
For this, the arguments of the constructor are first converted into actual objects,
which is done via a list of `IArgumentConstructorHandler`'s.
For example, handlers exist to handle primitive values such as strings and numbers,
arrays, and references to other components (which requires a recursive call to `ConfigConstructorPool`).
Once the arguments have been resolved, the constructor can be applied to obtain the final instantiated object.

By default, the `ConfigConstructor` assumes that configurations are instantiated via the [CommonJS JavaScript standard](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/modules.html),
which is primarily used by the Node.js runtime environment.
However, Components.js has been designed to handle different kinds of instantiation,
which can be done via different `IConstructionStrategy`'s.
For instance, this allows the framework to be compatible with other upcoming JavaScript standards such as [JavaScript modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules).

### Implementation

Components.js has been implemented in TypeScript,
and is available on [GitHub](cite:cites link:github:componentsjs)
under the MIT license.
At the time of writing, the latest release is at version 4.4.1,
which is published via the [npm package manager](cite:cites link:npm:componentsjs).

Due to the critical nature of this framework,
it is being tested thoroughly.
At the time of writing, it consists of 538 unit tests,
which reach a test coverage of 100%.

Components.js is being maintained by IDLab via software projects that make use of this framework.
A sustainability of this project is available on [GitHub](cite:cites link:web:componentsjssustainability).

Finally, in-depth [documentation](cite:cites link:docs:componentsjs) is available,
which explains how to create component and configuration files,
and how to invoke the DI tool.

Commit message:

Mention Comunica Association for sustainability

content/system.md, after:

## Dependency Injection Framework
{:#system}

Building on top of the declarative configurations that were explained in previous section,
we now discuss Components.js, which is a system that can interpret these configurations
for enabling dependency injection within JavaScript/TypeScript projects.
In this section, we first explain the main architecture, followed by the most relevant implementation details.

### Architecture
{:#system-architecture}

The primary functional requirement of our architecture is the ability to perform dependency injection based on the configuration files from previous section.
Concretely, this involves _parsing_ the configuration files, _interpreting_ them, and _instantiating_ the necessary components.
Next to these functional needs, we took the following non-functional requirements into account when designing the architecture:

* Usability: Developers using the framework should only be required to interact with a single entry point.
* Extensibility/Maintainability: The system should be robust against different future functional requirements.
* Performance: Parts of the architecture that are prone to performance issues should be cacheable.

To meet these requirements, the Components.js dependency injection tool goes through three main phases:

* Loading: Initialization of DI components, discovery of modules, and loading of configuration files.
* Preprocessing: Handling of constructor arguments before construction.
* Construction: Instantiation of JavaScript classes based on configuration files.

These three phases are handled by the `ComponentsManager`,
which acts as the main entrypoint of the framework
as can be seen in [](#architecture-main) in the appendix.
This manager class is constructed via a static `build` method,
via which custom options can be passed,
such as a callback for loading modules and configuration files.
To meet the _usability_ requirement, this is the only part that most users of the framework will interact with.

For the sake of clarity, all UML architecture diagrams that we include in this article
only contain simplified representations of the actual classes.
So there may be minor differences when comparing the diagrams with the actual source code.

Hereafter, we explain these three phases in more detail.

#### Loading

When the `ComponentsManager` is being built,
the loading phase will be initiated,
which will make use of the classes within the load package.
The most important classes within this package are shown in [](#architecture-load) in the appendix.
This phase aims to contain all major I/O operations, which could be expensive on slow disks and/or in large projects.
This allows later phases to purely work on memory.
Furthermore, the loaded information is designed to be cacheable,
which means that software that require repeated invocations may optimize the loading phase by caching certain parts,
which thereby meets the _performance_ requirement.

The `ModuleStateBuilder` is a class that is responsible for scanning the current JavaScript project and its dependencies.
The main objective of this class is to build an `IModuleState`, that contains information such as the paths to available components and dependencies.

`ComponentRegistry` and `ConfigRegistry` are classes that are exposed via a callback to invokers of `ComponentsManager.build()`.
These classes respectively enable modules and configurations to be registered,
after those modules and configurations will be loaded.

#### Preprocessing

Before a configuration is instantiated during the construction phase,
it always goes through a preprocessing phase.
Concretely, this involves processing all parameters and constructor arguments,
for which the most relevant classes and interfaces are shown in [](#architecture-preprocess) in the appendix.
To meet the _extensibility_ and _maintainability_ requirements, the architecture allows different parameters and constructor arguments handlers to be injected.
This makes the architecture more robust against currently unforeseen functional requirements regarding the handling of parameters and constructor arguments.

`IConfigPreprocessor` is an interface that represents a preprocessing algorithm for a configuration,
and can have multiple implementations.

`ConfigPreprocessorComponent` is a preprocessor that is able to determine what component is being instantiated within a configuration.
It will check if the linked component exists, and it will validate all passed parameters.
For this parameter validation, the `ParameterHandler` class is used,
which works based on a list of `IParameterPropertyHandler`'s.
For instance, parameter property handlers exist for validating the range of parameters,
checking the uniqueness, handling default values, and more.

`ConfigPreprocessorComponentMapped` is another preprocessor that builds upon `ConfigPreprocessorComponent`,
so that it _additionally_ handles constructor arguments as defined by the Object Mapping vocabulary.
Concretely, after validating parameters, it will handle the constructor arguments recursively
using a list of `IConstructorArgumentsElementMappingHandler`'s.
These handlers can handle specific types of constructor arguments and parameters,
such as the conversion of `om:ObjectMapping` to an object,
and the conversion of `om:ArrayMapping` to an array.

The end-result of the preprocessing phase is a configuration that represents
the raw constructor call of a class, together with the required arguments.

#### Construction

The construction phase is responsible for instantiating a configuration.
The main classes for this are shown in [](#architecture-construct) in the appendix.
Like before, the _extensibility_ and _maintainability_ requirements also apply here regarding the way in which things are constructed,
for which we also provide the ability to inject different handlers.

`ConfigConstructorPool` is the main entrypoint that is used when a user instantiates a configuration via `ComponentsManager.instantiate()`.
Before actually instantiating a config,
it will first check if it had been instantiated before,
in which case it returns it from a cache.
This may occur for nested configurations that reuse the same component in different places.
If the config has not been instantiated before,
it will first go through the preprocessing phase as explained in the previous section,
and then the processed config will be passed on to the `ConfigConstructor`.

The `ConfigConstructor` is able to convert the representation of a class constructor call into an actual constructor call to obtain an object.
For this, the arguments of the constructor are first converted into actual objects,
which is done via a list of `IArgumentConstructorHandler`'s.
For example, handlers exist to handle primitive values such as strings and numbers,
arrays, and references to other components (which requires a recursive call to `ConfigConstructorPool`).
Once the arguments have been resolved, the constructor can be applied to obtain the final instantiated object.

By default, the `ConfigConstructor` assumes that configurations are instantiated via the [CommonJS JavaScript standard](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/modules.html),
which is primarily used by the Node.js runtime environment.
However, Components.js has been designed to handle different kinds of instantiation,
which can be done via different `IConstructionStrategy`'s.
For instance, this allows the framework to be compatible with other upcoming JavaScript standards such as [JavaScript modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules).

### Implementation

Components.js has been implemented in TypeScript,
and is available on [GitHub](cite:cites link:github:componentsjs)
under the MIT license.
At the time of writing, the latest release is at version 4.4.1,
which is published via the [npm package manager](cite:cites link:npm:componentsjs).

Due to the critical nature of this framework,
it is being tested thoroughly.
At the time of writing, it consists of 538 unit tests,
which reach a test coverage of 100%.

Components.js is being maintained by IDLab via software projects that make use of this framework.
Furthermore, Components.js is part of the [Comunica Association](cite:cites link:web:comunicaassociation),
which is a non-profit organization that aims to ensure the long-term sustainability of certain open-source projects.
A sustainability of this project is available on [GitHub](cite:cites link:web:componentsjssustainability).

Finally, in-depth [documentation](cite:cites link:docs:componentsjs) is available,
which explains how to create component and configuration files,
and how to invoke the DI tool.
